---
title: Introduction
description: What Vue Blocks are and why you should use them.
navigation:
    icon: icon-home
---

## What are Vue Blocks?

Vue Blocks is not a "UI component library" in the traditional sense, but rather a "component-based development solution". It takes "Block" as the core concept, and breaks down the page into "function blocks" that can be configured independently, combined freely and reused repeatedly. Each Block not only contains the basic UI structure, but also integrates the corresponding logic processing. Instead of rewriting code from scratch, you can compose Blocks like building blocks to quickly develop a page.

## Why Vue Blocks?

- **Save time** - No need to build UI components from scratch.
- **Ensure Consistency** - Use standardized, high-quality designs.
- **Flexible integration** - Easily integrate into any vue project.
- **Increase efficiency** - Build pages quickly and easily.
- **Regular updates** - Keep up with the latest UI trends and enhancements.

## Built for Production

Vue Blocks are built on proven foundations:

- **Vue**: Easy to learn and use, excellent performance, suitable for rich Web front-end framework.
- **Tailwind CSS**: Modern and utility-first styling with fully customizable design system.
- **TypeScript**: Strong type safety, code autocompletion, and a better developer experience.
- **Reka UI**: Core components that enhance flexibility with custom items.
- **Inspira UI**: Provides beautifully designed, reusable components.
- **Shadcn Vue**: Component libraries for building accessible Web applications and design systems.
- **Motion Vue**: Smooth and performant animations for a great user experience.

## Open source and Community

Vue Blocks is fully open source (under the MIT license) and hosted on GitHub. Open source means that you can inspect your code, understand how each component block works, and even make any modifications based on your project's needs. We actively welcome community contributions, from bug fixes and documentation improvements to brand new component blocks. If you run into any issues or have any suggestions for improvement, you can submit issues or pull requests in the codebase. Contribute code is welcome - check out the Contribute guide to find out how to get involved. Our goal is to build a community of front-end developers and designers working together to build the best toolkit for Vue applications.

